_events/2018-09-24-p4-eu-workshop.md, before:

---
layout: post
title: 1st P4 European Workshop (P4EU)
date: 2018-09-24
header-img: assets/p4-background.png
---

### A presentation by the P4 Language Consortium in conjunction with ICNP 2018 
    
#### Held at Cambridge, UK on September 24, 2018

P4EU 2018 is the first P4 Language Consortium event in European. It aims to bring together P4 and P4->NetFPGA researchers from Europe and from around the world, and to foster the growth of the P4 Community.

P4EU, which will run as a workshop at ICNP 2018, will have proceedings. It aims to enable researchers to publish early stage work and small scale projects.

### Agenda

The technical agenda will be announced closer to the workshop date but will include a keynote address, talks and lightning talks, posters and demos, and a panel discussion.

### Call for Contributions

The first P4EU workshop will bring together networking researchers to discuss cutting-edge, P4-based, research. The workshop provides a
venue for P4-based research and projects, a place to discuss P4-based tools, and the research community needs. The workshop aims to forge connections between researchers, introduce more networking researchers to the P4 community, and seed future top-tier publications and innovation.

P4EU seeks three types of contributions:

* Papers - 4 to 6 pages long.
* Posters - up to 2 pages long.
* Demos - up to 2 pages long.

Posters and demos will be introduced in a lightning talks session.
Authors may choose to exclude their work from appearing in the proceedings.

Topics of an interest include, but are not limited to:

* All aspects of P4-based network protocol research including design, specification, verification, implementation, measurement, testing, and analysis.
* Contributions to network architecture using P4, e.g., specific algorithms and protocols for network virtualization or future Internet architectures.
* New applications and in-network computing enabled by P4
* P4-based and P4-NetFPGA based programmable data planes
* Tools and frameworks for development using P4
* Performance and performance constraints of P4 based designs


#### Important Dates

* Submission deadline: June 22nd, 2018
* Acceptance notification: July 21st, 2018
* Camera ready: August 15th, 2018
* Late submissions **WITHOUT PROCEEDINGS** deadline: August 10th, 2018 
* Late submissions notification: August 27th, 2018
* Workshop date: September 24th, 2018



#### Submission Instructions

P4EU 2018 will use a double-blind review process. Papers should adhere to the IEEE formatting requirements and should not exceed 6 pages for papers, and 2 pages for posters and demos. Authors are required to present accepted papers at the workshop, and at least one author is required to register, at the full rate, in order for the paper to appear in the proceedings and the IEEE digital library. One of the authors MUST present the accepted paper at the workshop. Exceptions from this policy for truly mitigating situations must be approved by the TPC Chairs before the beginning of the workshop.


#### Submission Website 
[https://hotcrp-p4eu2018.cl.cam.ac.uk/p4eu2018/](https://hotcrp-p4eu2018.cl.cam.ac.uk/p4eu2018/)


#### Submission Without Proceedings

A limited number of talks, demos and posters will be accepted to the workshop without appearing in ICNP 2018 proceedings, in a manner similar to previous P4 events. 
These submissions will go through the same review process as standard submissions, but can take advantage of a late submission deadline. 

The submission website for submissions that will **not appear** in the proceedings is: 

[https://hotcrp-p4eu2018.cl.cam.ac.uk/p4eu2018noproc/](https://hotcrp-p4eu2018.cl.cam.ac.uk/p4eu2018noproc/)

#### Registration
[Registration is through ICNP 2018](http://icnp18.cs.ucr.edu/registration.html) 

#### Travel Grants
[Refer to ICNP travel grants page](http://icnp18.cs.ucr.edu/grants.html)

More information is TBD

### Technical Program Committee

* Noa Zilberman (chair), University of Cambridge
* Robert Soul&eacute; (chair), Universit&agrave; della Svizzera italiana
* Gordon Brebner, Xilinx Labs
* Paolo Costa, Microsoft Research
* Andy Fingerhut, Cisco Systems
* Nate Foster, Cornell University
* Timothy Griffin, University of Cambridge
* Masoud Moshref, Barefoot Networks

### Sponsorship ###

Contact the workshop chairs for sponsorship opportunities.

Commit message:

Add pointer to ICNP website with latex template.

_events/2018-09-24-p4-eu-workshop.md, after:

---
layout: post
title: 1st P4 European Workshop (P4EU)
date: 2018-09-24
header-img: assets/p4-background.png
---

### A presentation by the P4 Language Consortium in conjunction with ICNP 2018 
    
#### Held at Cambridge, UK on September 24, 2018

P4EU 2018 is the first P4 Language Consortium event in European. It aims to bring together P4 and P4->NetFPGA researchers from Europe and from around the world, and to foster the growth of the P4 Community.

P4EU, which will run as a workshop at ICNP 2018, will have proceedings. It aims to enable researchers to publish early stage work and small scale projects.

### Agenda

The technical agenda will be announced closer to the workshop date but will include a keynote address, talks and lightning talks, posters and demos, and a panel discussion.

### Call for Contributions

The first P4EU workshop will bring together networking researchers to discuss cutting-edge, P4-based, research. The workshop provides a
venue for P4-based research and projects, a place to discuss P4-based tools, and the research community needs. The workshop aims to forge connections between researchers, introduce more networking researchers to the P4 community, and seed future top-tier publications and innovation.

P4EU seeks three types of contributions:

* Papers - 4 to 6 pages long.
* Posters - up to 2 pages long.
* Demos - up to 2 pages long.

Posters and demos will be introduced in a lightning talks session.
Authors may choose to exclude their work from appearing in the proceedings.

Topics of an interest include, but are not limited to:

* All aspects of P4-based network protocol research including design, specification, verification, implementation, measurement, testing, and analysis.
* Contributions to network architecture using P4, e.g., specific algorithms and protocols for network virtualization or future Internet architectures.
* New applications and in-network computing enabled by P4
* P4-based and P4-NetFPGA based programmable data planes
* Tools and frameworks for development using P4
* Performance and performance constraints of P4 based designs


#### Important Dates

* Submission deadline: June 22nd, 2018
* Acceptance notification: July 21st, 2018
* Camera ready: August 15th, 2018
* Late submissions **WITHOUT PROCEEDINGS** deadline: August 10th, 2018 
* Late submissions notification: August 27th, 2018
* Workshop date: September 24th, 2018



#### Submission Instructions

P4EU 2018 will use a double-blind review process. Papers should adhere to the IEEE formatting requirements and should not exceed 6 pages for papers, and 2 pages for posters and demos. Authors are required to present accepted papers at the workshop, and at least one author is required to register, at the full rate, in order for the paper to appear in the proceedings and the IEEE digital library. One of the authors MUST present the accepted paper at the workshop. Exceptions from this policy for truly mitigating situations must be approved by the TPC Chairs before the beginning of the workshop.


Formatting instructions and a template file can be found on the ICNP submission website:

[http://icnp18.cs.ucr.edu/submission.html](http://icnp18.cs.ucr.edu/submission.html)


#### Submission Website 
[https://hotcrp-p4eu2018.cl.cam.ac.uk/p4eu2018/](https://hotcrp-p4eu2018.cl.cam.ac.uk/p4eu2018/)


#### Submission Without Proceedings

A limited number of talks, demos and posters will be accepted to the workshop without appearing in ICNP 2018 proceedings, in a manner similar to previous P4 events. 
These submissions will go through the same review process as standard submissions, but can take advantage of a late submission deadline. 

The submission website for submissions that will **not appear** in the proceedings is: 

[https://hotcrp-p4eu2018.cl.cam.ac.uk/p4eu2018noproc/](https://hotcrp-p4eu2018.cl.cam.ac.uk/p4eu2018noproc/)

#### Registration
[Registration is through ICNP 2018](http://icnp18.cs.ucr.edu/registration.html) 

#### Travel Grants
[Refer to ICNP travel grants page](http://icnp18.cs.ucr.edu/grants.html)

More information is TBD

### Technical Program Committee

* Noa Zilberman (chair), University of Cambridge
* Robert Soul&eacute; (chair), Universit&agrave; della Svizzera italiana
* Gordon Brebner, Xilinx Labs
* Paolo Costa, Microsoft Research
* Andy Fingerhut, Cisco Systems
* Nate Foster, Cornell University
* Timothy Griffin, University of Cambridge
* Masoud Moshref, Barefoot Networks

### Sponsorship ###

Contact the workshop chairs for sponsorship opportunities.
