_events/2020-12-01-euro-p4-workshop.md, before:

---
layout: post
title: 3rd P4 Workshop in Europe (EuroP4)
date: 2020-12-01
header-img: assets/p4-background.png
---

### A presentation by the P4 Language Consortium and ONF in conjunction with CoNEXT 2020

#### Held online on December 1, 2020

EuroP4 2020 is the third P4 Language Consortium event in Europe.
It aims to bring together P4 and P4->NetFPGA researchers from Europe and from around the world, and to foster the growth of the P4 Community.

### EuroP4 Registration Grants

We are pleased to offer a limited number of awards supporting registration expenses associated with participating at CoNEXT 2020 and EuroP4 2020. Attendees from traditionally under-represented groups, students and recent graduates, early-career researchers in industry and non-affiliated, are particularly encouraged to apply. Should we receive more applications than the funding can support, priority will be given to applicants not otherwise able to attend the conference, and/or from regions where financial resources may not be available to cover even the lower remote registration cost.

The intent of the registration grant is to encourage a broader diversity of participation, and, as a result, award selection will prioritize applicants who are not authors.  Though, everyone is encouraged to apply.

Registration grants are funded by the generous support of our sponsor APS Networks.

Award applications must be completed at the [CoNEXT 2020 site](https://conext20grant.hotcrp.com). Applications will be reviewed and awards will be offered starting from November 10th, 2020. However, we will keep accepting applications even after November 10th and award grants based on availability. The applicants need to provide a resume and a short statement indicating how they would benefit from attending EuroP4 2020.

Each grant is for a nominal amount for registration for the virtual event. Details on payment/reimbursement will be announced soon.

If you have any questions about the application process, please email the TPC Co-Chairs.

### Program

---

* __9:15 - 9:30, GMT__

    Welcome and Introductions  
    Fernando Ramos and Gabor Retvari

---

* __9:30 - 10:30, GMT__

    Keynote talk by [Laurent Vanbever (ETH Zürich)](https://vanbever.eu)  
    Title: TBD

---

* __10:30 - 11:00, GMT__

    Virtual coffee break

---

* __11:00 - 12:30, GMT__

    Session 1: Use Cases

    * __11:00 - 11:15, GMT__  
    *Comparative Evaluation of IP-Address Anti-Spoofing Mechanisms using a P4/NetFPGA-based Switch.* Harsh Gondaliya (SRM Institute of Science and Technology), Ganesh C. Sankaran (University of California, Davis), Krishna Sivalingam (Indian Institute of Technology Madras)

    * __11:15 - 11:30, GMT__  
    *Falcon - Low Latency, Network-Accelerated Scheduling.* Ibrahim Kettaneh (University of Waterloo), Sreeharsha Udayashankar (University of Waterloo), Ashraf Abdel-hadi (University of Waterloo), Samer Al-Kiswany (University of Waterloo)

    * __11:30 - 11:45, GMT__  
    *SYN Flood Defense in Programmable Data Planes.* Dominik Scholz (Technical University of Munich), Sebastian Gallenmüller (Technical University of Munich), Henning Stubbe (Technical University of Munich), Georg Carle (Technical University of Munich)

    * __11:45 - 12:00, GMT__  
    *P4-Protect: 1+1 Path Protection for P4.* Steffen Lindner (University of Tuebingen), Daniel Merling (University of Tuebingen), Marco Häberle (University of Tuebingen), Michael Menth (University of Tuebingen)

    * __12:00 - 12:30, GMT__  
    Panel discussion

---

* __12:30 - 13:30, GMT__

    Lunch break

---

* __13:30 - 15:00, GMT__

    Session 2: Posters and Demos

    * Posters

        * __13:30 - 13:40, GMT__  
        *Unleashing the performance of virtual BNG by offloading data plane to a programmable ASIC.* Tomasz Osiński (Orange Labs & Warsaw University of Technology), Mateusz Kossakowski (Orange Labs), Mateusz Pawlik (Orange Labs), Jan Palimąka (Orange Labs), Michał Sala (Orange Labs), Halina Tarasiuk (Warsaw University of Technology)

        * __13:40 - 13:50, GMT__  
        *Towards a Hybrid Next Generation NodeB.* Péter Vörös (Eötvös Loránd University), Gergely Pongrácz (Ericsson Research), Sándor Laki (Eötvös Loránd University)

        * __13:50 - 14:00, GMT__  
        *A perspective on P4-based data and control plane modularity for network automation.* Eder Ollora Zaballa (Technical University of Denmark), David Franco (University of the Basque Country), Michael Stübert Berger (Denmark Techinical University), Mariavi Higuero (University of the Basque Country)

    * Demos

        * __14:00 - 14:10, GMT__  
        *A P4 Data Plane for the Quantum Internet.* Wojciech Kozlowski (QuTech, Delft University of Technology), Fernando Kuipers (Delft University of Technology), Stephanie Wehner (QuTech, Delft University of Technology)

        * __14:10 - 14:20, GMT__  
        *Developing EFSM-based stateful applications with FlowBlaze.p4 and ONOS.* Daniele Moro (Politecnico di Milano), Davide Sanvito (NEC Laboratories Europe), Antonio Capone (Politecnico di Milano)

        * __14:20 - 14:30, GMT__  
        *Pushing Network Programmability to the Limits with SRv6 uSID and P4.* Ahmed Abdelsalam (Cisco Systems), Angelo Tulumello (University of Rome Tor Vergata), Marco Bonola (CNIT – National Inter University Consortium for Telecommunications), Stefano Salsano (University of Rome Tor Vergata), Clarence Filsfils (Cisco Systems)

    * __14:30 - 15:00, GMT__  
    Panel discussion

---

* __15:00 - 15:30, GMT__

    Coffee break

---

* __15:30 - 16:45, GMT__

    Session 3: Architectures and Platforms

    * __15:30 - 15:45, GMT__  
    *Compiling Packet Programs to Reconfigurable Switches: Theory and Algorithms.* Balázs Vass (Budapest University of Technology and Economics), Erika Bérczi-Kovács (Eötvös Loránd Science University), Costin Raiciu (University Politehnica of Bucharest), Gábor Rétvári (Budapest University of Technology and Economics)

    * __15:45 - 16:00, GMT__  
    *Leveraging Target-specific Features Through P4.* Alex Seibulescu (Pensando Systems, Inc.), Mario Baldi (Pensando Systems, Inc.)

    * __16:00 - 16:15, GMT__  
    *MTPSA: Multi-Tenant Programmable Switches.* Radostin Stoyanov (University of Cambridge), Noa Zilberman (University of Oxford)

    * __16:15 - 16:45, GMT__  
    Panel discussion

---

* __16:45 - 17:00, GMT__

    Closing words

* __17:00 - 18:00, GMT__

    Virtual social event

---

### Important Dates

~~*Abstract registration:* Tuesday September 1st, 2020 (11:59PM AoE)~~  
~~*Abstract registration and Paper submission deadline:* Tuesday, September 8th, 2020 (11:59PM AoE)~~  
~~*Acceptance notification:* Monday, October 5th, 2020~~  
~~*Posters and demos deadline:* Tuesday, September 8th, 2020 (11:59PM AoE)~~  
~~*Posters and demos notification:* Monday, October 5th, 2020.~~  
~~*Camera ready:* Thursday, October 29th, 2020 (11:59PM AoE)~~  
*Video upload:* Wednesday, November 18th, 2020 (11:59PM AoE)  

### Participation

As a consequence of the current situation of the COVID-19 pandemic and similar to CoNEXT'20, EuroP4'20 will be a fully virtual (online) event. Please follow the updates on the CoNEXT'20 and our website for the details.

### Registration
[Registration is through CoNEXT 2020](https://conferences2.sigcomm.org/co-next/2020/)

### General Chairs

[Noa Zilberman](https://www.cl.cam.ac.uk/~nz247), University of Cambridge  
[Robert Soulé](http://www.cs.yale.edu/homes/soule), Yale University  

### Program Chairs

[Fernando Ramos](http://fvramos.at.di.fc.ul.pt), University of Lisbon  
[Gabor Retvari](http://lendulet.tmit.bme.hu/~retvari), Budapest University of Technology and Economics  

### Technical Program Committee

Aurojit Panda, *New York University*  
Ben Pfaff, *VMware*  
Brian O’Connor, *Open Networking Foundation*  
Christian Rothenberg, *University of Campinas*  
Gianni Antichi, *Queen Mary University of London*  
Gordon Brebner, *Xilinx Labs*  
Jon Crowcroft, *University of Cambridge*  
Marco Chiesa, *KTH Royal Institute of Technology*  
Mario Baldi, *Pensando Systems & Politecnico di Torino*  
Mina Tahmasbi Arashloo, *Cornell University*  
Nate Foster, *Cornell University*  
Paolo Costa, *Microsoft Research*  
Roberto Bifulco, *NEC Labs Europe*  
Sandor Laki, *Eötvös Loránd University*  
Shir Landau Feibish, *Princeton University*  
Theo Jepsen, *Stanford University*  

### Sponsors

<a href="http://www.aps-networks.com"><img src="/assets/aps-networks-logo.png" alt="APS Networks" width="300"/></a>

---

Commit message:

Europ4 2020 keynote (#618)
* Added Laurent's keynote

* Added Salvatore and Tamas

* Correct names

_events/2020-12-01-euro-p4-workshop.md, after:

---
layout: post
title: 3rd P4 Workshop in Europe (EuroP4)
date: 2020-12-01
header-img: assets/p4-background.png
---

### A presentation by the P4 Language Consortium and ONF in conjunction with CoNEXT 2020

#### Held online on December 1, 2020

EuroP4 2020 is the third P4 Language Consortium event in Europe.
It aims to bring together P4 and P4->NetFPGA researchers from Europe and from around the world, and to foster the growth of the P4 Community.

### EuroP4 Registration Grants

We are pleased to offer a limited number of awards supporting registration expenses associated with participating at CoNEXT 2020 and EuroP4 2020. Attendees from traditionally under-represented groups, students and recent graduates, early-career researchers in industry and non-affiliated, are particularly encouraged to apply. Should we receive more applications than the funding can support, priority will be given to applicants not otherwise able to attend the conference, and/or from regions where financial resources may not be available to cover even the lower remote registration cost.

The intent of the registration grant is to encourage a broader diversity of participation, and, as a result, award selection will prioritize applicants who are not authors.  Though, everyone is encouraged to apply.

Registration grants are funded by the generous support of our sponsor APS Networks.

Award applications must be completed at the [CoNEXT 2020 site](https://conext20grant.hotcrp.com). Applications will be reviewed and awards will be offered starting from November 10th, 2020. However, we will keep accepting applications even after November 10th and award grants based on availability. The applicants need to provide a resume and a short statement indicating how they would benefit from attending EuroP4 2020.

Each grant is for a nominal amount for registration for the virtual event. Details on payment/reimbursement will be announced soon.

If you have any questions about the application process, please email the TPC Co-Chairs.

### Program

---

* __9:15 - 9:30, GMT__

    Welcome and Introductions  
    Fernando Ramos and Gábor Rétvári

---

* __9:30 - 10:30, GMT__

    Keynote talk by [Laurent Vanbever (ETH Zürich)](https://vanbever.eu)  
    *Title:* Programmable, Hardware-Based Routing and Scheduling  
    *Abstract:* Routing and scheduling are two of the most fundamental tasks performed by any network. Routing determines the set of paths alongside which network traffic flows, while scheduling controls how traffic flows alongside these paths.  
    Today, these two tasks strike different trade-offs in terms of flexibility and speed. As it runs in the control plane, in software, routing tends to be flexible... but slow. In contrast, as it runs in the data plane, most of the time in hardware, scheduling tends to be inflexible... but fast.  
    In this talk, I will argue that this trade-off is not fundamental thanks to the recent advent of programmable data planes. More specifically, I will first argue about offloading (some) routing tasks to the hardware, so as to make them much faster. I will then argue about making packet scheduling programmable, so as to make it much more flexible. I will illustrate each proposal with examples of our recent works including Hardware-Accelerated Control Planes [HotNets'18], Blink [NSDI'19], and SP-PIFO [NSDI'20].

---

* __10:30 - 11:00, GMT__

    Virtual coffee break

---

* __11:00 - 12:30, GMT__

    Session 1: Use Cases

    * __11:00 - 11:15, GMT__  
    *Comparative Evaluation of IP-Address Anti-Spoofing Mechanisms using a P4/NetFPGA-based Switch.* Harsh Gondaliya (SRM Institute of Science and Technology), Ganesh C. Sankaran (University of California, Davis), Krishna Sivalingam (Indian Institute of Technology Madras)

    * __11:15 - 11:30, GMT__  
    *Falcon - Low Latency, Network-Accelerated Scheduling.* Ibrahim Kettaneh (University of Waterloo), Sreeharsha Udayashankar (University of Waterloo), Ashraf Abdel-hadi (University of Waterloo), Samer Al-Kiswany (University of Waterloo)

    * __11:30 - 11:45, GMT__  
    *SYN Flood Defense in Programmable Data Planes.* Dominik Scholz (Technical University of Munich), Sebastian Gallenmüller (Technical University of Munich), Henning Stubbe (Technical University of Munich), Georg Carle (Technical University of Munich)

    * __11:45 - 12:00, GMT__  
    *P4-Protect: 1+1 Path Protection for P4.* Steffen Lindner (University of Tuebingen), Daniel Merling (University of Tuebingen), Marco Häberle (University of Tuebingen), Michael Menth (University of Tuebingen)

    * __12:00 - 12:30, GMT__  
    Panel discussion

---

* __12:30 - 13:30, GMT__

    Lunch break

---

* __13:30 - 15:00, GMT__

    Session 2: Posters and Demos

    * Posters

        * __13:30 - 13:40, GMT__  
        *Unleashing the performance of virtual BNG by offloading data plane to a programmable ASIC.* Tomasz Osiński (Orange Labs & Warsaw University of Technology), Mateusz Kossakowski (Orange Labs), Mateusz Pawlik (Orange Labs), Jan Palimąka (Orange Labs), Michał Sala (Orange Labs), Halina Tarasiuk (Warsaw University of Technology)

        * __13:40 - 13:50, GMT__  
        *Towards a Hybrid Next Generation NodeB.* Péter Vörös (Eötvös Loránd University), Gergely Pongrácz (Ericsson Research), Sándor Laki (Eötvös Loránd University)

        * __13:50 - 14:00, GMT__  
        *A perspective on P4-based data and control plane modularity for network automation.* Eder Ollora Zaballa (Technical University of Denmark), David Franco (University of the Basque Country), Michael Stübert Berger (Denmark Techinical University), Mariavi Higuero (University of the Basque Country)

    * Demos

        * __14:00 - 14:10, GMT__  
        *A P4 Data Plane for the Quantum Internet.* Wojciech Kozlowski (QuTech, Delft University of Technology), Fernando Kuipers (Delft University of Technology), Stephanie Wehner (QuTech, Delft University of Technology)

        * __14:10 - 14:20, GMT__  
        *Developing EFSM-based stateful applications with FlowBlaze.p4 and ONOS.* Daniele Moro (Politecnico di Milano), Davide Sanvito (NEC Laboratories Europe), Antonio Capone (Politecnico di Milano)

        * __14:20 - 14:30, GMT__  
        *Pushing Network Programmability to the Limits with SRv6 uSID and P4.* Ahmed Abdelsalam (Cisco Systems), Angelo Tulumello (University of Rome Tor Vergata), Marco Bonola (CNIT – National Inter University Consortium for Telecommunications), Stefano Salsano (University of Rome Tor Vergata), Clarence Filsfils (Cisco Systems)

    * __14:30 - 15:00, GMT__  
    Panel discussion

---

* __15:00 - 15:30, GMT__

    Coffee break

---

* __15:30 - 16:45, GMT__

    Session 3: Architectures and Platforms

    * __15:30 - 15:45, GMT__  
    *Compiling Packet Programs to Reconfigurable Switches: Theory and Algorithms.* Balázs Vass (Budapest University of Technology and Economics), Erika Bérczi-Kovács (Eötvös Loránd Science University), Costin Raiciu (University Politehnica of Bucharest), Gábor Rétvári (Budapest University of Technology and Economics)

    * __15:45 - 16:00, GMT__  
    *Leveraging Target-specific Features Through P4.* Alex Seibulescu (Pensando Systems, Inc.), Mario Baldi (Pensando Systems, Inc.)

    * __16:00 - 16:15, GMT__  
    *MTPSA: Multi-Tenant Programmable Switches.* Radostin Stoyanov (University of Cambridge), Noa Zilberman (University of Oxford)

    * __16:15 - 16:45, GMT__  
    Panel discussion

---

* __16:45 - 17:00, GMT__

    Closing words

* __17:00 - 18:00, GMT__

    Virtual social event

---

### Important Dates

~~*Abstract registration:* Tuesday September 1st, 2020 (11:59PM AoE)~~  
~~*Abstract registration and Paper submission deadline:* Tuesday, September 8th, 2020 (11:59PM AoE)~~  
~~*Acceptance notification:* Monday, October 5th, 2020~~  
~~*Posters and demos deadline:* Tuesday, September 8th, 2020 (11:59PM AoE)~~  
~~*Posters and demos notification:* Monday, October 5th, 2020.~~  
~~*Camera ready:* Thursday, October 29th, 2020 (11:59PM AoE)~~  
*Video upload:* Wednesday, November 18th, 2020 (11:59PM AoE)  

### Participation

As a consequence of the current situation of the COVID-19 pandemic and similar to CoNEXT'20, EuroP4'20 will be a fully virtual (online) event. Please follow the updates on the CoNEXT'20 and our website for the details.

### Registration
[Registration is through CoNEXT 2020](https://conferences2.sigcomm.org/co-next/2020/)

### General Chairs

[Noa Zilberman](https://www.cl.cam.ac.uk/~nz247), University of Cambridge  
[Robert Soulé](http://www.cs.yale.edu/homes/soule), Yale University  

### Program Chairs

[Fernando Ramos](http://fvramos.at.di.fc.ul.pt), University of Lisbon  
[Gábor Rétvári](http://lendulet.tmit.bme.hu/~retvari), Budapest University of Technology and Economics  

### Organizing Committee

Salvatore Signorello, University of Lisbon  
Tamás Lévai, Budapest University of Technology and Economics  

### Technical Program Committee

Aurojit Panda, *New York University*  
Ben Pfaff, *VMware*  
Brian O’Connor, *Open Networking Foundation*  
Christian Rothenberg, *University of Campinas*  
Gianni Antichi, *Queen Mary University of London*  
Gordon Brebner, *Xilinx Labs*  
Jon Crowcroft, *University of Cambridge*  
Marco Chiesa, *KTH Royal Institute of Technology*  
Mario Baldi, *Pensando Systems & Politecnico di Torino*  
Mina Tahmasbi Arashloo, *Cornell University*  
Nate Foster, *Cornell University*  
Paolo Costa, *Microsoft Research*  
Roberto Bifulco, *NEC Labs Europe*  
Sandor Laki, *Eötvös Loránd University*  
Shir Landau Feibish, *Princeton University*  
Theo Jepsen, *Stanford University*  

### Sponsors

<a href="http://www.aps-networks.com"><img src="/assets/aps-networks-logo.png" alt="APS Networks" width="300"/></a>

---
