---
layout: post
title: "The ONF and P4.Org Complete Combination to Accelerate Innovation in Operator-Led Open Source"
author: "P4.org"
category: p4
header-img: assets/p4-background.png
---

# P4 Becomes a Project Hosted by ONF

MENLO PARK, Calif., April 9, 2019– The [Open Networking
Foundation](https://opennetworking.org) (ONF) today announced that it
completed the combination with P4.org, and will host all P4 activities
and working groups moving forward. The ONF will bring the P4 work
under its umbrella of operator-led open source SDN projects, and, as
with all ONF projects, the ONF will aim to strategically align P4
activities with the Linux Foundation to advance our shared mission of
promoting open source as a tool for transformation and innovation. The
P4 project will continue to operate as before with minimal disruption
while benefiting from strategic alignment with ONF and from ONF’s
operational infrastructure and expertise.

“The entire ONF team is extremely pleased to be joining with the P4
community to grow our combined ecosystem. We see great synergy between
all the ONF projects and P4, and our Stratum and COMAC projects are
already making use of P4 in innovative ways. More closely aligning our
activities will be of benefit to both communities, and we expect P4 to
play a pivotal role as we continue to pursue the broader
Next-Generation SDN agenda,” said Guru Parulkar, executive director
and board member for the Open Networking Foundation.

“P4.org helped grow the fledgling P4 language into the de-facto
industry standard way to describe how switches, routers and NICs
process packets. The synergies with ONF are clear: Both organizations
develop community-owned open-source software for networking. It's time
for P4.org to be part of a larger, more established organization that
can keep it open, independent and steadily growing for many more years
to come, " said Nick McKeown, Stanford Professor and co-founder and
board member of the ONF and P4.org.

#### Practical Impact for P4 Members

Practically speaking, moving the P4 project under the umbrella of the ONF is intended to be minimally disruptive to the P4 community.  Specifically:
* All the P4 properties are still active (like [p4.org](https://p4.org), [github.com/p4lang/](https://github.com/p4lang), etc.)
* All P4 mailing lists remain active
* All P4 working groups remain active and under the same leadership
* All P4 members can continue to work on all P4 related activities
* As before, no fees are required to continue to participate in all P4 activities

#### About P4.org

The P4 Language Consortium is a non-profit organization building a
thriving open source community dedicated to the use and improvement of
the P4 language. It helps promote standardization and improvement of
the P4 language and enables participants to develop new technologies
that function in accordance with the P4 language specification. P4.org
has over 100 members from industry and academia.

#### About the Open Networking Foundation:

The Open Networking Foundation (ONF) is an operator led consortium
spearheading disruptive network transformation. Now the recognized
leader for open source solutions for operators, the ONF first launched
in 2011 as the standard bearer for Software Defined Networking (SDN).
Led by its operator partners AT&T, China Unicom, Comcast, Deutsche
Telekom, Google, NTT Group and Turk Telekom, the ONF is driving vast
transformation across the operator space. For further information,
visit http://www.opennetworking.org

#### Media Contact:
Greg Cross<br />
PR for the Open Networking Foundation<br />
email: [greg@opennetworking.org](mailto:greg@opennetworking.org) <br />

&#35;&#35;&#35;
