---
layout: post
title: "Announcing version 1.2.0 of the P4-16 Language Specification"
author: "Mihai Budiu and Nate Foster"
category: p4
permalink: /p4/p4-16-v1.2.0/
header-img: assets/p4-background.png
---

On behalf of the entire P4 Language Design Working Group, we are
pleased to announce version 1.2.0 of the P4<sub>16</sub> Language
Specification.

The official specification document is available in
[HTML](https://p4.org/p4-spec/docs/P4-16-v1.2.0.html) and
[PDF](https://p4.org/p4-spec/docs/P4-16-v1.2.0.pdf) on the
[P4](https://p4.org) website.

## Overview

Most of the features added in version 1.2.0 can be characterized as
"ergonomic improvements" rather than dramatic changes to the language.
The modest scope of these changes reflects our commitment to
stability, which was made when P4<sub>16</sub> version 1.0.0 was first
announced at the P4 Workshop in May 2017, and indicate that the
foundations of the language are sound. 

In particular, due to P4<sub>16</sub>'s target-architecture
separation, it has been possible to add new features to specific
architectures without having to change the language. For example, the
[V1Model
architecture](https://github.com/p4lang/p4c/blob/master/p4include/v1model.p4#L561)
nows support `assert` and `assume` functions as externs, which can be
used to document and check properties that hold during the execution
of a P4 program. Adding these features did not require making any
modifications to the language specification.

However, as members of the P4 community have gained experience using
the language to build new systems, the need for a few new features
become apparent and some pain points emerged. P4<sub>16</sub> version
1.2.0 attempts to address these needs. Following is a brief summary of
the main technical changes made in this version of the language.

### String and Int Types

The language now exposes `string` and `int` types to programmers.
Previously these types were used internally by the compiler to give
types to string and integer literals but could not be used directly by
programmers.

Now, the string type can be used to specify the type of `extern`
functions such as,
```
extern void log(string message);
``` 
which might be useful for adding debugging information to a log on a
software switch.

Similarly, the `int` type is useful for specifying the type
constructor parameters that control the size of elements such as
tables:
```
control c(...)(int n) {
  table t {
    ...
    size = n;
  } 
}
```
To ensure that strings do not require excessive run-time
computation, `int` and `string` can only be used with compile-time
known values---i.e., literals and operations involving literals.

### Bit Types

One of the design goals behind P4<sub>16</sub> was to give a clear
semantics to all expressions that manipulate bit values. To this end,
version 1.2.0 clarifies that the language supports 1-bit signed
values. It also clarifies that the result of a bit slice is unsigned,
even if the value being sliced was signed. For example, after
evaluating the following declarations,

```
int<9> x = -1;
bit<1> b = x[9:9];
```
the value of `b` will be `1`.

### Casts on Enum Values

P4<sub>16</sub> version 1.1.0 added serializable `enum`s, which allow
the programmer to specify an underlying type for enumerations. In
version 1.2.0, `enum` values with a specified underlying type, such as
```
enum bit<2> E {
  A = 0;
  B = 1;
  C = 2;
  D = 3;
}
```
are now automatically cast to the underlying type. For instance, the
following statements are legal:
```
E e = A;
bit<2> b = e;
```
We expect that this feature will be useful when writing parsers that
handle headers whose fields are specified using enum types. Previously
a cast was required when `select`ing on such fields, which was tedious
for programmers. Now the types can be converted automatically by the
compiler.

### Header Type Sizes

As a convenience, the language now offers two operations to calculate
the minimum size of a header type, `h.minSizeInBits()` and
`h.minSizeInBytes()`. These operations are similar to `sizeof` in C
and C++. Note however that while the minimum size of a header can be
determined at compile time, the run-time size may be larger---e.g., if
it contains fields whose type is `varbit`.

### Annotations

Annotations provide a mechanism for extending P4<sub>16</sub> without
having to modify the grammar and the rest of the front-end. To
accommodate a variety of possible annotations, some of which are
target-specific, we have relaxed the syntax of annotations so that
they may contain any sequence of terminals, so long as any parentheses
are balanced.

At the same time, some standardized annotations may mandate specific
structure---e.g., the `@name` annotation has a string as its body
while the `pkginfo` annotation used by P4Runtime takes a list of
key-value pairs. We imagine that in the future, the structure of other
annotations may become de facto or official standards.

## Acknowledgments

As always, developing this new version of the language specification
was a community effort. It represents months of hard work by the
entire P4 Language Design Working Group. Please see the minutes from
our monthly meetings, which are posted on the [LDWG
Wiki](https://github.com/p4lang/p4-spec/wiki/Language-Design-Working-Group)
for details about the key contributors to each feature.

## Get Involved!

We plan to release version 1.3.0 of the specification in late spring 2020. 
The Language Design Working Group is already discussing several
features to focus on for this release including enhancements to the
type system, architecture,s and run-time APIs, among other features.

If you'd like to get involved, please sign up for the [P4
Design](https://lists.p4.org/mailman/listinfo/p4-design_lists.p4.org)
mailing list, or join our monthly meetings. We typically meet on the
first Monday of each month at 10am PT. You can find details at the [P4
Working Group Calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=j4to42rsjqtfks0qb7iah8gous%40group.calendar.google.com).
