---
layout: post
title: "Announcing the P4Runtime v1.2 release"
date: 2020-07-13
author: "Antonin Bas"
category: p4
header-img: assets/p4-background.png
---

We are excited to announce the release of [P4Runtime v1.2.0][p4runtime-spec]. We
have come a long way since the [creation of the P4 API Working
Group][p4-api-wg-blog] in 2017 and the P4Runtime [1.0.0
release][p4runtime-1.0-blog] in 2019! Congrats to everyone in the P4 API Working
Group for making this possible and continuing to improve the quality of the
P4Runtime API and specification document.

The end of 2019 was big for P4Runtime, with ONF
[announcing][stratum-announcement] that the Stratum project was released as
open-source. This makes Stratum the first open switch OS to offer P4Runtime as a
northbound interface, with multiple [hardware platforms][stratum-hw] already
supported. If you do not have access to hardware, fret not as Stratum also
supports the [bmv2 simulator][stratum-bmv2], which anyone can run on a Linux
system.

The first half of 2020 was also very exciting, with 2 minor releases for
P4Runtime, [v1.1][release-v1.1] (Feb 2020) and [v1.2][release-v1.2] (July 2020).

## Notable Changes in P4Runtime v1.1 and v1.2

For the full list of changes, refer to the [revision history][revision-history].

### Major Overhaul of Master-Arbitration (v1.1)

The P4Runtime interface allows multiple controllers to be connected to the
P4Runtime server running on the device at the same time: one master controller -
the only one with write access to the device - and potentially several stand-by
controllers. Each controller has a numerical election ID, usually assigned
through a leader election algorithm (e.g. Paxos, as implemented in [Chubby]),
which it advertises to the server, with the master being the controller with the
highest election ID. In case the master goes offline, one of the stand-by
controllers is available to take its place. In P4Runtime v1.0, this hand-over
was automatic and handled entirely by the server: upon detecting that the master
had disconnected, the server would look for the controller with the next highest
election ID, and appoint it in its place. The P4 API Working Group received
feedback from Google and ONF engineers implementing SDN controllers that this
could lead to issues in production deployments. In particular, in case of a
network partition, it is possible for a controller in a minority partition to
gain write access to the device. To address this issue in P4Runtime v1.1, we
specified that the master election ID at each P4Runtime server must be strictly
monotonically increasing. While this is a significant change for P4Runtime
server implementations, the Working Group felt that it did not warrant
increasing the major version number for the P4Runtime API, as the format of the
Protobuf messages did not change.

### New `error` Field to Report Stream Errors (v1.1)

This is another change that was requested by P4Runtime users. It enables the
server to asynchronously report an error back when the controller sends an
invalid message on the bi-directional stream, without shutting-down the stream
altogether.

This is what the `StreamMessageResponse` message now looks like in P4Runtime
v1.1:
```protobuf
message StreamMessageResponse {
  oneof update {
    MasterArbitrationUpdate arbitration = 1;
    PacketIn packet = 2;
    DigestList digest = 3;
    IdleTimeoutNotification idle_timeout_notification = 4;
    .google.protobuf.Any other = 5;
    // Used by the server to asynchronously report errors which occur when
    // processing StreamMessageRequest messages.
    StreamError error = 6;
  }
}
```

A typical use-case is for the server to use this new `error` field when a
packet-out sent by the controller is invalid or not supported by the device. For
example, if a packet-out exceeds the MTU (Maximum Transmission Unit) for the
egress link, the server may generate the following `StreamMessageResponse`:
```
error {
 canonical_code: 3  # INVALID_ARGUMENT
 message: "Packet exceeds the MTU for port."
 space: "targetX-psa-vendor1"
 code: 123  # MTU_EXCEEDED
 packet_out {
   # we do not set the packet_out field as it does not provide any
   # extra information to the client
 }
}
```

### New `Capabilities` RPC (v1.1)

Now that P4Runtime has minor releases, it may be necessary for a client to have
a mechanism through which to detect the exact version P4Runtime version
implemented by the server, in order to determine which feature set is
available. This is now possible thanks to a new `Capabilities` RPC, inspired by
the one found in [gNMI][gnmi-capabilities]:
```protobuf
service P4Runtime {
  // ...

  rpc Capabilities(CapabilitiesRequest) returns (CapabilitiesResponse) {
  }
}

message CapabilitiesRequest {
}

message CapabilitiesResponse {
  // The full semantic version string (e.g. "1.1.0-rc.1") corresponding to the
  // version of the P4Runtime API currently implemented by the server.
  string p4runtime_api_version = 1;
}
```

At the moment, the response only includes a semantic version string. In the
future, we may consider providing additional information: for fixed-function
devices, this may include a well-known set of P4 programs that are supported by
the device, similarly to how the gNMI `Capabilities` RPC returns a list of YANG
models implemented by the server.

### Support for Wildcard Reads for Multicast Groups and Clone Sessions (v1.1)

One shortcoming of P4Runtime v1.0 is the inability for the controller to
retrieve the entire list of multicast group entries or clone session entries
programmed into the device. This makes it difficult to implement reconciliation
correctly at the controller, since there is no way to read these entries without
assuming that their numerical identifiers are already known. This was addressed
in P4Runtime (without any change to the message format), and "wildcard" reads
are now supported for multicast groups and clone sessions, just like they are
for every other object (tables, counters, etc.).

### The `optional` Match Kind (v1.2)

The `optional` match kind was [proposed][optional-proposal] by Stefan Heule and
is simply a `ternary` match where the mask is restricted to be all ones (exact
match) or all zeros (wildcard match). So why do we need it? Based on our
experience writing P4 programs and control planes for these programs, we believe
that it offers the following advantages:
 * It provides an additional tool to the P4 programmer who can now express value
   restrictions for the mask used in match entries. This specific use case is
   also fairly common in P4 pipelines when supporting two mutually-exclusive
   proptocols, such as IPv4 and IPv6. A match table's key may select both IPv4
   and IPv6 fields; using `optional`, one can easily exclude IPv4 fields from
   the match for IPv6 packets, and vice versa.
 * Some P4 targets (hardware or software) can take advantage of the extra
   information provided by `optional` to achieve more efficient resource
   utilization or better performance.

While the `optional` match kind is not part of the core P4 language *yet*, it is
part of the [v1model architecture] and P4Runtime supports programming `optional`
matches starting with v1.2. By making `optional` part of P4Runtime rather than
relying on existing `ternary` support, we ensure alignment between the P4
program and the control plane application. By constraining the syntax of the
P4Runtime Protobuf messages based on the match kind, we help reduce the
possibility of runtime errors.

### Improvements to Annotations Support (v1.2)

Several tools have been built by P4Runtime users and implementers, which
leverage [P4 annotations][p4-annotations] to provide additional information to
P4Runtime clients and servers. One example is [p4-constraints][p4-constraints],
a project hosted on p4lang which extends the P4 language with support for
constraint annotations enforced at runtime (e.g. by a P4Runtime server
implementation). These tools rely on the P4Info message including a verbatim
copy of the annotations (we often refer to them as "raw annotations" in the
context of P4Info) present in the P4 program. Oftentimes, annotations end up
having a similar structure (e.g. a list of key-value pairs), which means that
these tools end up doing very similar and repetitive parsing work. For P4Runtime
v1.2, we decided to help simplify writing such tools with two main changes:
 * support for structured annotations
 * ability to include source location information (P4 filename and line number)
   for all annotations

Defining structured annotations was a joint effort by the P4 Language Design
Working Group and the P4 API Working Group led by Chris Sommers. Structured
annotations come with their own syntax and are used to annotate objects with
key-value lists or expression lists. The P4 compiler is expected to tokenize the
body of structured annotations and this information will be included in the
P4Info message using a Protobuf representation which can be easily consumed by
other tools.

This is an example of a structured annotation (on a P4 table declaration):
```p4
@MyStructuredAnnotation[label="text", my_bool=true, int_val=2*3]
table t {
    // ...
}
```
The P4Info message generated by the P4 compiler will include the following
information for this table:
```
structured_annotations {
  name: "MyStructuredAnnotation"
  kv_pair_list {
    kv_pairs {
      key: "label"
      value {
        string_value: "text"
      }
    }
    kv_pairs {
      key: "my_bool"
      value {
        bool_value: true
      }
    }
    kv_pairs {
      key: "int_val"
      value {
        int64_value: 6
      }
    }
  }
  source_location {
    file: "example.p4"
    line: 145
    column: 1
  }
}
```

By also including source location information (for both regular annotations and
structured ones), we enable tools which perform additional parsing on the
annotation bodies, as is the case for [p4-constraints], to generate more helpful
error messages in case of invalid annotation usage.

### Golang bindings (v1.2)

P4Runtime v1.2 is the first release for which we are publishing the Go bindings
generated by the Protobuf compiler to the [p4lang/p4runtime] Github repo, so
that they can more easily be consummed by third-party Go applications. For an
example, take a look [here][p4runtime-go-client].

## Looking Forward

Looking forward to the end of 2020 and beyond, the Working Group is planning to
start working on P4Runtime v2. We already have some [ideas][long-term ideas] on
how to address some know limitations of P4Runtime v1 and make P4Runtime even
better, without being restrained by the shackles of
backwards-compatibility. Nothing is set in stone yet, and we would greatly
appreciate additional feedback from users and vendors. If you'd like to get
involved, please consider attending our [bi-weekly
meetings][p4runtime-community]. And don't hesitate to open an
[issue][p4runtime-issues] on Github if you have any suggestion!


[p4runtime-spec]: https://p4.org/p4runtime/spec/v1.2.0/P4Runtime-Spec.html
[p4-api-wg-blog]: https://p4.org/api/announcing-p4runtime-a-contribution-by-the-p4-api-working-group.html
[p4runtime-1.0-blog]: https://p4.org/p4/p4runtime-v1-release
[stratum-announcement]: https://www.opennetworking.org/news-and-events/press-releases/onf-announces-stratum-project-now-available-as-open-source-completes-incubation-development/
[stratum-hw]: https://github.com/stratum/stratum#supported-devices
[stratum-bmv2]: https://github.com/stratum/tutorial
[release-v1.1]: https://github.com/p4lang/p4runtime/releases/tag/v1.1.0
[release-v1.2]: https://github.com/p4lang/p4runtime/releases/tag/v1.2.0
[revision-history]: https://p4.org/p4runtime/spec/v1.2.0/P4Runtime-Spec.html#sec-revision-history
[Chubby]: https://static.googleusercontent.com/media/research.google.com/en//archive/chubby-osdi06.pdf
[gnmi-capabilities]: https://github.com/openconfig/gnmi/blob/master/proto/gnmi/gnmi.proto#L51
[optional-proposal]: https://github.com/p4lang/p4-spec/issues/794
[v1model architecture]: https://github.com/p4lang/p4c/blob/master/p4include/v1model.p4
[p4-annotations]: https://p4.org/p4-spec/docs/P4-16-v1.2.1.html#sec-annotations
[p4-constraints]: https://github.com/p4lang/p4-constraints
[p4lang/p4runtime]: https://github.com/p4lang/p4runtime
[p4runtime-go-client]: https://github.com/antoninbas/p4runtime-go-client
[long-term ideas]: https://github.com/p4lang/p4runtime/projects/1
[p4runtime-community]: https://github.com/p4lang/p4runtime#community
[p4runtime-issues]: https://github.com/p4lang/p4runtime/issues
