docs/working-groups.md, before:

---
layout: post
title: Working Groups
permalink: /working-groups/
header-img: img/p4-background.png
---

The P4 working groups handle all technical activities related to the
language.

# Language Design Working Group
- Mailing list: [http://lists.p4.org/mailman/listinfo/p4-design_lists.p4.org](http://lists.p4.org/mailman/listinfo/p4-design_lists.p4.org)
- GitHub: [https://github.com/p4lang/p4-spec/](https://github.com/p4lang/p4-spec/)
- Co-Chairs:
    - Nate Foster (Cornell)
    - Gordon Brebner (Xilinx)

# API Working Group
- Mailing list: [http://lists.p4.org/mailman/listinfo/p4-api_lists.p4.org](http://lists.p4.org/mailman/listinfo/p4-api_lists.p4.org)
- GitHub: [https://github.com/p4lang/PI](https://github.com/p4lang/PI)
- Co-chairs:
    - Antonin Bas (Barefoot)
    - Lorenzo Vicisano (Google)

# Architecture Working Group
- Mailing list: [http://lists.p4.org/mailman/listinfo/p4-arch_lists.p4.org](http://lists.p4.org/mailman/listinfo/p4-arch_lists.p4.org)
- GitHub: [https://github.com/p4lang/p4-spec/tree/master/p4-16/psa](https://github.com/p4lang/p4-spec/tree/master/p4-16/psa)
- Co-Chairs:
    - Calin Cascaval (Barefoot)
    - Andy Fingerhut (Cisco)

# Applications Working Group
- Mailing list: [http://lists.p4.org/mailman/listinfo/p4-apps_lists.p4.org](http://lists.p4.org/mailman/listinfo/p4-apps_lists.p4.org)
- GitHub: [https://github.com/p4lang/p4-applications](https://github.com/p4lang/p4-applications)
- Co-Chairs:
    - Mukesh Hira (VMware)
    - JK Lee (Barefoot)

Commit message:

add mailing list info about working groups

docs/working-groups.md, after:

---
layout: post
title: Working Groups
permalink: /working-groups/
header-img: img/p4-background.png
---

The P4 working groups handle all technical activities related to the
language. Members of the P4 organization can freely participate in any
of the Working Groups by signing on to the mailing lists. Mailing list
archives are available to the public, however membership is
restricted. Please become a [member](/join-us/).

# Language Design Working Group
- Mailing list: [Sign up](http://lists.p4.org/mailman/listinfo/p4-design_lists.p4.org), [Archive](http://lists.p4.org/pipermail/p4-design_lists.p4.org/)
- GitHub: [https://github.com/p4lang/p4-spec/](https://github.com/p4lang/p4-spec/)
- Co-Chairs:
    - Nate Foster (Cornell)
    - Gordon Brebner (Xilinx)

# API Working Group
- Mailing list: [Sign up](http://lists.p4.org/mailman/listinfo/p4-api_lists.p4.org), [Archive](http://lists.p4.org/pipermail/p4-api_lists.p4.org/)
- GitHub: [https://github.com/p4lang/PI](https://github.com/p4lang/PI)
- Co-chairs:
    - Antonin Bas (Barefoot)
    - Lorenzo Vicisano (Google)

# Architecture Working Group
- Mailing list: [Sign up](http://lists.p4.org/mailman/listinfo/p4-arch_lists.p4.org), [Archive](http://lists.p4.org/pipermail/p4-arch_lists.p4.org/)
- GitHub: [https://github.com/p4lang/p4-spec/tree/master/p4-16/psa](https://github.com/p4lang/p4-spec/tree/master/p4-16/psa)
- Co-Chairs:
    - Calin Cascaval (Barefoot)
    - Andy Fingerhut (Cisco)

# Applications Working Group
- Mailing list: [Sign up](http://lists.p4.org/mailman/listinfo/p4-apps_lists.p4.org), [Archive](http://lists.p4.org/pipermail/p4-apps_lists.p4.org/)
- GitHub: [https://github.com/p4lang/p4-applications](https://github.com/p4lang/p4-applications)
- Co-Chairs:
    - Mukesh Hira (VMware)
    - JK Lee (Barefoot)
